---
title: "#22. Generate Parentheses"
layout: single

author_profile: false

# right side bar: table of contents
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: Contents
toc_icon: "fas fa-utensils"

# left side bar: other contents
sidebar:
    nav: "problem-category"

# Define tags
tag: [Medium, Algorithm]

# LaTeX available
use_math: true

# redirect_from:
#   - /위험카테고리이름/파일이름
---

This questions if from the [LeetCode](https://leetcode.com) and you can find the question here, [22. Generate Parentheses](https://leetcode.com/problems/generate-parentheses/).
{: .notice--danger}

# Solution
We are going to solve this problem by ***backtracking***. 

We know the total length of the answer with `n` parenthesis is `2n`. Hence we are going to find all `2n` length strings consists of `'('` and `')'`.  The method of finding the strings is:

1. Create a function called `backtracking` which requires parameters: `output`, `curString`, `leftCount`, `rightCount`, `n`.
   + `output`: the list of strings that we are going to store answers
   + `curString`: a string that we are going to add to `output` if its length is `2n`, or recurse `backtracking` by adding `'('` or `')'`. 
   + `leftCount`: the number of `'('` in the `curString`.
   + `rightCount`: the number of `')'` in the `curString`.
   + `n`: number of the pairs of parentheses.
2. `backtracking` first checks the length of `curString` and if it is `2n`, add it to the `output`.
3. Otherwise, we should append `'('` or `')'` after the `curString`. However, it should be well-formed parentheses.
   + If `leftCount < n`, there must be `n - leftCount` number of extra `'('` in `curString`. Hence we call `backtracking`:
     + `backtracking(output, curString + '(', leftCount + 1, rightCount, n);`
   + But  we should find all possible combinations of `n` parentheses. It means we should also checks the `curString + ')'`.
   + We know that the `rightCount` cannot exceed `leftCount` since such a case refers to the `curString` containing more closing parentheses than opening parentheses.
   + Only if `rightCount < leftCount`, we `backtracking(output, curString + ')', leftCount, rightCount + 1, n);`
   + Repeating the steps above guarantees that we checked all possibilities of parentheses of `2n` length by adding `'('` and `')'` after every `curString` which begins as `""`.

# C++ Code
```c++
class Solution {
public:
    vector<string> generateParenthesis(int n) {
        vector<string> output;
        backtracking(output, "", 0, 0, n);
        return output;
    }
    void backtracking(vector<string>& output, string curString, int leftCount, int rightCount, int n){
        if (curString.size() == 2 * n) {
            output.push_back(curString);
            return;
        }
        if (leftCount < n) {
            backtracking(output, curString + "(", leftCount + 1, rightCount, n);
        }
        if (leftCount > rightCount) {
            backtracking(output, curString + ")", leftCount, rightCount + 1, n);
        }
    }
};
```

# Python Code
~~~python
class Solution(object):
    def generateParenthesis(self, n):
        """
        :type n: int
        :rtype: List[str]
        """
        def backtracking(curString, leftCount, rightCount, n):
            if len(curString) == 2*n:
                output.append(curString)
            
            if leftCount < n:
                backtracking(curString + '(', leftCount + 1, rightCount, n)
            if rightCount < leftCount:
                backtracking(curString + ')', leftCount, rightCount + 1, n)
        
        output = []
        backtracking("", 0, 0, n)

        return output
~~~

# Time Complexity: *$O(\frac{4^{n}}{\sqrt{n}})$*
We only track the valid prefixes during the backtracking procedure. And the total number of valid parentheses strings is $O(\frac{4^{n}}{n \sqrt{n}})$.

When considering each valid string, it is important to note that we use a mutable instance (StringBuilder in Java, list in Python etc.). As a result, in order to add each instance of a valid string to `answer`, we must first convert it to a string. This process brings an additional $n$ factor in the time complexity.

Hence, $O(\frac{4^{n}}{n \sqrt{n}}) * O(n) = O(n \times \frac{4^{n}}{n \sqrt{n}}) = O(\frac{4^{n}}{\sqrt{n}})$.

# Space Complexity: *$O(n)$*
The space complexity of a recursive call depends on the maximum depth of the recursive call stack, which is $2n$. As each recursive call either adds a left parenthesis or a right parenthesis, and the total number of parentheses is $2n$. Therefore, at most $O(n)$levels of recursion will be created, and each level consumes a constant amount of space.
