---
title:  "PCCP(Programmers Certified Coding Professional) Study Note - C++"
layout: single

author_profile: false

# right side bar: table of contents
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: Contents
toc_icon: "fas fa-utensils"

# left side bar: other contents
sidebar:
    nav: "study-note"

# Choose categories
categories: "Certificate"

# LaTeX available
use_math: true

# redirect_from:
#   - /위험카테고리이름/파일이름
---

# What is PCCP

The PCCP (Programmers Certified Coding Professional) is a high level programming certificate for coding majors.

This certificate test is hosted by "[Programmers](https://programmers.co.kr/)", a Korean programming support organization, and 4 questions related to the language you chose among Python, Java, and C++, will be presented. The test time is 120 minutes and the certificate is valid for 2 years.

The language I chose for this contest is C++, and the scope of questions are as follows:

+ Basic Implementaion
+ Basic Data Structures and Algorithms (String, Array, Greedy, Sort, etc.)
+ Standard Data Structures and Algorithms (Sort, Stack, Queue, Deque, Hash, Binary Search, DFS, and BFS)
+ Advanced Data Structures and Algorithms (Graph, Tree, Heap, and Dynamic Programming)
+ Efficiency (time and space).

In this study note, we will first solve the two mock exams and previous exam questions, then we will briefly review the data structures and algorithms in C++.



# The Mock Exam #1

## Q1. Find lonely alphabets

We are given a string consisting of lower-case alphabets. We need to return the string which is the collection of the lonely alphabets: alphabets appear more than once in the given string and do not appear consecutively. The returned string must be alphabetically sorted.

**Example**:

`string = "aabbddaa"`. `"b" and "d"` appears consecutively so they are not lonely alphabets. However `"a"` appears four times where `"aa"` are not consecutively appeared. Hence `"a"` is the lonely alphabet.

`return "a";`



**Solution**:

We are going to iterate the given string, remembering the last indexes of each alphabet. When we get an alphabet that does not appear for the first time and if its last index is not right before the current iteration, we remember the alphabet as a lonely alphabet.

**Code**:

~~~c++
#include <string>
#include <vector>
#include <unordered_map>

using namespace std;

string solution(string input_string) {
    string answer = "";
    
    // To remember the last index of each alphabet
    unordered_map<char, int> lastIndex;
    
    // To remember lonely alphabets
    vector<int> finalAnswer (26, -1);
    
    for (int i = 0; i < input_string.size(); i++) {
        if (lastIndex.find(input_string[i]) == lastIndex.end()) {// if it appears for the first time
            lastIndex[input_string[i]] = i;
        } else if (lastIndex[input_string[i]] != i - 1) {// if it is a lonely alphabet
            finalAnswer[input_string[i] - 'a'] = 1;
        } else {
            lastIndex[input_string[i]] = i;
        }
    }
   
    for (int i = 0; i < finalAnswer.size(); i++) {
        if (finalAnswer[i] == 1) {
            answer += (i + 'a');
        }
    }
    return answer == "" ? "N" : answer;
}
~~~



## Q2. Athletics competition

Your school has a sports competition every year. In the sports competition, one representative from each class will compete against each other for various events, and one student can represent only one event at maximum. Your class also wants to pick one representative per event. Each student has different abilities for each event, but this ability is quantified and can be known in advance. Your class's strategy is to maximize the sum of competency values for each event representative.

**Example**:

`array = [[40, 10, 10], [20, 5, 0], [30, 30, 30], [70, 0, 70], [100, 100, 100]]`, then choosing the first student as a representative of the first sports event, the last student as a representative of the second sports event, and the fourth student as a representative of the last sports event makes the sum of abilities max. `40 + 100 + 70 = 210`.

**Solution**:

We are going to use `DFS` algorithm to solve this question.

**Code**:

~~~c++
#include <string>
#include <vector>

using namespace std;

vector<int> studentCheck(10, 0);
int maximum = 0;
int sum = 0;

void dfs(vector<vector<int>> &ability, int index){
    
    if (index == ability[0].size()){ //한 경우를 다 찾았으면 합산
        if (maximum < sum) maximum = sum;
        return;
    }
    
    for (int i=0; i<ability.size(); i++){
        if (studentCheck[i] == 1)
            continue;
        studentCheck[i]=1;
        sum += ability[i][index];
        dfs(ability,index+1);
        sum -= ability[i][index];
        studentCheck[i]=0;
    }
}

int solution(vector<vector<int>> ability) {
    dfs (ability,0);
    return maximum;
}
~~~



## Q3. The law of inheritance

Mendel discovered the following special rule after seven years of experimenting with peas.

+ When round pea thoroughbred (RR) is self-pollinated, the same genes, only round pea thoroughbred traits appear in the next generation.
+ When the wrinkled pea thoroughbred (rr) is self-pollinated, only the wrinkled pea thoroughbred trait appears in the next generation.
+ When self-pollinating a hybrid (Rr) hybridized between two thoroughbreds, the traits of the next generation appear at a ratio of RR:Rr:rr=1:2:1.

~~~markdown
1st                               Rr
2nd           RR            Rr           Rr             rr
3rd      RR RR RR RR   RR Rr Rr rr   RR Rr Rr rr   rr rr rr rr          
~~~

If you know the generation of peas and the index in that generation, you're going to create a program that calculates traits right away.

**Example**:

`arr = [[3, 1], [2, 3], [3, 9]]` then the result will be `["RR", "Rr", "RR"]`. Where the first element in each list represents the generation and the second element represents the index in that generation.

**Solution**:

We can simply know the index of the parent pea of our target pea by `preNum = number % 4 == 0 ? number / 4 : number / 4 + 1`. For example, if the index is `16` then its parent pea's index will be 4 but if it is `17` then its parent pea's index will be 5.

Hence we are going to use ***backtracking*** algorithm to repeat finding its parent pea's trait until it reaches the 1st generation, `"Rr"`.

**Code**:

~~~c++
#include <string>
#include <vector>

using namespace std;

// To get the current pea's trait with its index and the trait of the parent pea
string helper(string pre, int number){
    if (pre == "RR" || pre == "rr") return pre;
    if (number == 1) return "RR";
    else if (number == 2 || number == 3) return "Rr";
    else return "rr";
}

// backtracking
string getProperty(int generation, int number) {
    if (generation == 1) return "Rr";
    int preNum = number % 4 == 0 ? number / 4 : number / 4 + 1;
    string previous = getProperty(generation - 1, preNum);
    return helper(previous, number % 4);
}

vector<string> solution(vector<vector<int>> queries) {
    vector<string> answer;
    for (vector<int> query : queries) {
        answer.push_back(getProperty(query[0], query[1]));
    }
    return answer;
}
~~~



## Q4. Operating system

The developer Junmo created the operating system. The operating system created by Junmo determines the order of execution based on the priority of the program and the time it is called. All programs are scored from 1 to 10, and the lower the score, the higher the priority. Each program has a fixed run time, and when the program is called, it is in a standby state, and when it is in its own order, it runs during the run time and ends.

The operating system created by Junmo runs the program with the highest priority among the called programs. Each called program runs after all called programs with a higher priority than itself have ended. However, even if a program with a higher priority than the running program is called, the running program continues to run until it is terminated without interruption. Also, among programs with the same priority, the program called first runs first.

Given a two-dimensional integer array program that represents the information of the programs, complete a solution function that returns the sum of waiting times in an integer array for each program score and the time at which all programs end. The answer array that needs to be returned is an integer array of length 11. `Answer[0]` means the time when all programs end, and `answer[i] (1 ≤ i ≤ 10)` means the sum of the wait times for programs with a program score of `i`.

The given array `program` has a rule:

+ `1 ≤ program length ≤ 100,000`
+ `program[i]` means the information in program `i+1` and is given in the form of `[a, b, c]`:
  + `a` means the score of the program and satisfies 1 ≤ a ≤ 10.
  + `b` means the time when the program was called and satisfies 0 ≤ b ≤ 10,000,000.
  + `c` represents the running time of the program and satisfies 1 ≤ c ≤ 1000.
+ Programs with duplicate `a` and `b` pairs are not given as inputs. In other words, no program has the same time and the same score.

**Example**:

`array = [[2, 0, 10], [1, 5, 5], [3, 5, 3], [3, 12, 2]]	`, then our result will be `[20, 5, 0, 16, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]`.

1.  No program is running when program number 1 is called at 0 seconds, so program number 1 runs immediately at 0 seconds. Program number 1 ends at 10 seconds, and programs number 2 and 3 are newly called.
2. Of the programs 2 and 3 called, program 2 has a high priority of 1. Program number 2 was called at 5 seconds and waited for 5 seconds to run at 10 seconds. Program No. 2 ends at 15 seconds, and program No. 4 is newly called.
3. Programs 3 and 4 called have the same score, but program 3 runs first because program 3 was called first. Program number 3 was called at 5 seconds and waited for 10 seconds to run at 15 seconds. Program 3 ends at 18 seconds.
4. Program No. 4 was last executed, and program No. 4 was called at 12 seconds and waited for 6 seconds until it was executed at 18 seconds. Program number 4 ends at 20 seconds.

All programs end in 20 seconds, and each program waits 0, 5, 10, and 6 seconds in order. The total waiting time for a program with a score of 1 is 5, and the total waiting time for a program with a score of 3 is 16.



**Solution**:

We create two different **priority queue**s:

1. Ordered by the calling time of the program

   ~~~c++
   struct compareCallingTime {
       bool operator()(const vector<long long>& a, const vector<long long>& b){
           if (a[1] == b[1]) return a[0] > b[0];
           else return a[1] > b[1];
       }
   };
   ~~~

2. Ordered by the priority of the program

   ~~~c++
   struct comparePriority{
       bool operator()(const vector<long long>& a, const vector<long long>& b){
           if (a[0] == b[0]) return a[1] > b[1];
           else return a[0] > b[0];
       }
   };
   ~~~

Our algorithm will be:

1. Repeat the followings:
   + In the priority_queue that is ordered by the calling time, we choose programs that can be run in `curTime` and push them to the priority_queue that is ordered by the priority.
   + If there is a program in the priority_queue that is ordered by the priority, we take the top program.
   + If the priority_queue that is ordered by the priority is empty, we take the top program in the other priority_queue.
2. End the loop and add `curTime` to the answer

**Code**:

~~~c++
#include <string>
#include <vector>
#include <iostream>
#include <queue>

using namespace std;

struct CompareCallingTime {
    bool operator()(const vector<long long>& a, const vector<long long>& b){
        if (a[1] == b[1]) return a[0] > b[0];
        else return a[1] > b[1];
    }
};

struct ComparePriority{
    bool operator()(const vector<long long>& a, const vector<long long>& b){
        if (a[0] == b[0]) return a[1] > b[1];
        else return a[0] > b[0];
    }
};

priority_queue<vector<long long>, vector<vector<long long>>, CompareCallingTime> timeQ;
priority_queue<vector<long long>, vector<vector<long long>>, ComparePriority> priorityQ;

vector<long long> solution(vector<vector<int>> program) {
    vector<long long> answer (11, 0);
    
    for (int i=0; i<program.size(); i++) timeQ.push({program[i][0], program[i][1], program[i][2]});
    
    long long curTime = 0;
    
    while (!timeQ.empty() || !priorityQ.empty()) {
        vector <long long> curProgram;
        
        while (!timeQ.empty()) {
            curProgram = timeQ.top();
            if (curProgram[1] > curTime) break;
            priorityQ.push(curProgram);
            timeQ.pop();
        }
        
        if (priorityQ.empty()) {
            curProgram = timeQ.top();
            curTime = curProgram[1] + curProgram[2];
            timeQ.pop();
        } else {
            curProgram = priorityQ.top();
            if (curTime > curProgram[1]) {
                answer[curProgram[0]] += curTime - curProgram[1];
                curTime += curProgram[2];
            } else curTime += curProgram[2];
            priorityQ.pop();
        }
    }
    
    answer[0] = curTime;
    return answer;
}
~~~

# The Mock Exam #2

## Q1. Robot

We are given the string, `command`, which is consisting of command characters:

+ **'R'**: The robot rotates 90 degree to the right side
+ **'L'**: The robot rotates 90 degree to the left side
+ **'G'**: The robot moves 1 cell forward
+ **'B'**: The robot moves 1 cell backward

The initial position of robot is `(0, 0)` and we should return the final position of the robot and it is facing the +y side.

**Example**: `command = "GRGLGRG"`

1. `G`: The robot moves to `(0, 1)`.
2. `R`: The robot faces the right side.
3. `G`: The robot moves to `(1, 1)`.
4. `L`: The robot faces the up side.
5. `G`: The robot moves to `(1, 2)`.
6. `R`: The robot faces the right side.
7. `G`: The robot moves to `(2, 2)`.

Thus we should return `(2, 2)`.

**Solution**:

We can just simply set the `curDir` and moves as `command` character requires.

We create the x-direction and y-direction vector:

~~~c++
const vector<int> xDir = {0, 1, 0, -1};
const vector<int> yDir = {1, 0, -1, 0};
~~~

And we change the index of the direction vectors every time we get the `R` or `L` command.

**Code**:

~~~c++
#include <string>
#include <vector>

using namespace std;

vector<int> solution(string command) {
    vector<int> answer;
    int x = 0;
    int y = 0;
    const vector<int> xDir = {0, 1, 0, -1};
    const vector<int> yDir = {1, 0, -1, 0};
    int dirIndex = 0;
    for (char c : command) {
        if (c == 'R') dirIndex = dirIndex < 3 ? dirIndex + 1 : 0;
        else if (c == 'L') dirIndex = dirIndex != 0 ? dirIndex - 1 : 3;
        else if (c == 'G') {
            x += xDir[dirIndex];
            y += yDir[dirIndex];
        } else {
            x -= xDir[dirIndex];
            y -= yDir[dirIndex];
        }
    }
    answer.push_back(x);
    answer.push_back(y);
    return answer;
}
~~~

## Q2. Educate the new employees

We are given an integer vector, `ability`, which contains the ability score of each employees. Then we are given the number of education, `number`, we are going to run through for two selected employees in the `ability`. 

If we educate two employees, both employees' abilities will be the sum of the their abilities. The point is you are the spy of the company so that you want to choose two employees each time to make the sum of the final abilities of all employees to be the minimum. Then you are going to return the sum of the abilities.

**Example**: `ability = [10, 3, 7, 2], number = 2`

1. We first educate the second and the last employees. Then we get `ability = [10, 5, 7, 5]`.
2. We educate the same two employees. Then we get `ability = [10, 10, 7, 10]`.

The minimum sum of final abilities is 37.

**Solution**:

It seems complicated but we just need to find two employees whose ability is the lowest.

But it is too inefficient to sort the `ability` every time we choose two employees. Hence, we will sort the entire array, `ability`, once at the beginning and will sort by ourselves in each time. This is possible because we choose the first and the second abilities every time, so we just need to sort `ability[0] ~ ability[x]` where ability[x] is the smallest ability that `ability[x] >= ability[0] + ability[1]`.

**Code**:

~~~c++
#include <string>
#include <vector>
#include <algorithm>

using namespace std;

int solution(vector<int> ability, int number) {
    int answer = 0;
    int len = ability.size();
    int sum = 0;
    sort(ability.begin(), ability.end());
    for (int x = 0; x < number; x++) {
        sum = ability[0] + ability[1];
        int i = 2;
        while (ability[i] < sum && i < len) {
            ability[i - 2] = ability[i];
            i++;
        }
        ability[i - 2] = sum;
        ability[i - 1] = sum;
    }
    for (int x : ability) answer += x;
    return answer;
}
~~~

## Q3. Expand the Cafe

You are the owner of a cafe and you want to expand the cafe. You need to find the maximum number of visitors of the cafe at the same time. You are given the two integer arrays, `menu` and `order`, which contains the amount of times to cook each drinks and the order list of the customers, correspondingly. And you also get the number, `k`, which represents the amount of time between customers visiting the cafe. As soon as the cafe starts operating, one customer arrives at the store at 0 second, and exactly every k seconds, a new customer comes to the cafe and lines up. Customers order to order through the machine, and you create drinks in order. You create each drink at a time, and if you create a drink, you'll start making the next drink. The customer leaves the cafe as soon as he receives the drink. If one customer leaves the cafe and another customer enters the cafe at the same time, the leaving customer leaves first and then the incoming customer enters. 

You should find the maximum number of waiting customers in your cafe.

**Example**: `menu = [5, 12, 30], order = [1, 2, 0, 1], k = 10`

| customerNum | 1    | 2    | 3    | 4    |
| ----------- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| arrvingTime | 0    | 10   | 20   | 30   |

| orderNum | menuTime | curTime | totalCustomers                       | maxWaitingCustomers during the cooking time |
| -------- | -------- | ------- | ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------- |
| 1        | 12       | 12      | 2                                    | 2 at the time `[10, 12)`                    |
| 2        | 30       | 42      | 4 (Since there are only 4 customers) | 3 at the time `[30, 42)`                    |
| 3        | 5        | 47      | 4                                    | 2 at the time `[42, 47)`                    |
| 4        | 12       | 59      | 4                                    | 1 at the time `[47, 59]`                    |

Hence we return `3`.

**Solution**:

We will traverse the array, `order`, and add every cooking time for the corresponding `order` to the `curTime`.

We need:

+ `orderNum`: which represents the current index of `order`.

+ `curTime`: which represents the current time
+ `len`: the length of the given array, `order`.
+ `totalCustomer`: total number of customers before the time when the current drink is cooked.
+ `maxCustomer`: the maximum number of waiting customers during the current drink cooking time.



In each order, we first add the cooking time to the `curTime`:

+ But what if `orderNum * k >= curTime`? This means that the drink is cooked before the next customer arrives. Hence our time should be `orderNum * k` because it is impossible to prepare a drink in advance before the next customer arrives and orders.
+ Then we add `menu[order[orderNum]]` to the `curTime`.

We can find the `totalCustomer` by `curTime / k + 1` but if `curTime % k == 0, totalCustomer = curTime / k` since we assume that leaving customer leaves first. The key point is that the `totalCustomer` cannot exceed the `len`.

~~~c++
totalCustomer = curTime % k == 0 ? min(curTime / k, len) : min(curTime / k + 1, len);
~~~

If we know the `totalCustomer` and the `orderNum`, we can find the maximum waiting customers during the cooking time by `maxCustomer = totalCustomer - orderNum`.

**Code**:

~~~c++
#include <string>
#include <vector>

using namespace std;

int solution(vector<int> menu, vector<int> order, int k) {
    int answer = 0;
    int curTime = 0;
    int len = order.size();
    
    int totalCustomer = 1;
    int curCustomer = 0;
    for (int orderNum = 0; orderNum < len; orderNum++) {
        if (orderNum * k >= curTime) curTime = orderNum * k;
        curTime += menu[order[orderNum]];
        totalCustomer = curTime % k == 0 ? min(curTime / k, len) : min(curTime / k + 1, len);
        curCustomer = totalCustomer - orderNum;
        answer = max(answer, curCustomer);
    }
    return answer;
}
~~~

## Q4. Treasure map

You got a treasure map where its horizontal length is `n`, and the vertical length is `m`.

You are at the position of `(1, 1)` and the treasure is at the `(n, m)`. You should find the shortest path to reach to the treasure. However, there are traps somewhere and you are given the array of traps, `holes`, which contains the positions of traps. The key point is that you have a special item that can jump one cell and you can use this item only once. It can jump the traps. You are only allowed to move to the adjacent cell in the direction of [up, down, left, right]. If there is no way to reach to the treasure, you should return `-1`. Otherwise, return the length of the shortest path. 

**Example**: `n = 4, m = 4, hole = [[2, 3], [3, 3]]`

~~~markdown
|       |   3   |   4   |Treasure - 5|
|       | Hole  | Hole  |            |
|       |   2   |       |            |
|  You  |   1   |       |            |
~~~

Then the length of the shortest path is 5.

**Solution**:

We are going to use `queue` and use ***bfs*** algorithm to solve this problem.

First we need variables:

+ `xDir`: {1, 0, -1, 0}
+ `yDir`: {0, 1, 0, -1}
+ `field`: 2D integer array of size,`[n + 1][m + 1]`, to mark the shortest length to reach each cell from `(1, 1)`.
+ `visited`: 3D boolean array of size, `[n + 1][m + 1][2]`, to check each cell is visited for two cases: 'the item is not used', and 'the item is used'.
+ `Q`: queue to ***bfs*** each cell.

From the `(1, 1)` we will find the adjacent cells and mark the length of the shortest path, 1, on `field`. Then we keep checking each adjacent cell of the previous cell. To do this, we will push every adjacent cell to the `Q`. We will loop until `Q` be empty or we reached to the treasure.

**Code**:

~~~c++
#include <string>
#include <vector>
#include <queue>

using namespace std;
const vector<int> xDir = {1, 0, -1, 0};
const vector<int> yDir = {0, 1, 0, -1};


int solution(int n, int m, vector<vector<int>> hole) {
    vector<vector<int>> field(n + 1, vector<int>(m + 1, 0));
    vector<vector<vector<bool>>> visited(n + 1, vector<vector<bool>>(m + 1, {false, false}));
    int answer = -1;
    for (auto a: hole) field[a[0]][a[1]] = 1;
    queue<vector<int>> Q;
    Q.push({1, 1, 0, 0});
    while (!Q.empty()){
        int x, y, used, dist;
        vector<int> cur = Q.front();
        Q.pop();
        x = cur[0];
        y = cur[1];
        used = cur[2];
        dist = cur[3];
        if (x == n && y == m) {
            answer = dist;
            break;
        }
        if (x < 1 || x > n || y < 1 || y > m || visited[x][y][used] || field[x][y]) continue;
        visited[x][y][used] = true;
        for (int i = 0; i < 4; i++) {
            Q.push({x + xDir[i], y + yDir[i], used, dist + 1});
            if (used == 0) {
                Q.push({x + xDir[i] * 2, y + yDir[i] * 2, 1, dist + 1});
            }
        }
    }
    return answer;
}
~~~

# The Previous Exam

## Q1. Bandaging

In some games, there is a skill called `Bandaging`.

If you `Bandaging` for `t` seconds, it heals your  `x` amount of health every second. And at the end of `t` seconds, you succeed in bandaging, so you get an extra `y` amount of health. Your health cannot exceed the `max health`. 

If you get damaged while `bandaging`, your health get reduced by the amount of damage and the skill get canceled and you start over the `bandaging`.

The given array, `bandage`, contains:

+ `bandage[0]`: `t` which is the time for bandaging.
+ `bandage[1]`: `x` which is the healing health in every second while bandaging
+ `bandage[2]`: `y`: which is the extra healing health when you finish bandaging

And you get the parameter `health` which represents your current and max health.

The other given array, `attacks`, contains arrays, `attack`, where:

+ `attack[0]`: the time of the attack
+ `attack[1]`: the damage

You should return the final health after `attacks`. If your health get lower than 0, you died so you just need to return `-1`.

**Example**: `bandage = [5, 1, 5], health = 30, attacks = [[2, 10], [9, 15], [10, 5], [11, 5]]`

| time | curHealth | bandageTime | attack |
| ---- | --------- | ----------- | ------ |
| 0    | 30        | 0           | X      |
| 1    | 30 (+ 0)  | 1           | X      |
| 2    | 20 (- 10) | 0           | O      |
| 3    | 21 (+ 1)  | 1           | X      |
| 4    | 22 ( + 1) | 2           | X      |
| 5    | 23 ( + 1) | 3           | X      |
| 6    | 24 ( + 1) | 4           | X      |
| 7    | 30 (+ 6)  | 5           | X      |
| 8    | 30 ( + 0) | 1           | X      |
| 9    | 15 (- 15) | 0           | O      |
| 10   | 10 (- 5)  | 0           | O      |
| 11   | 5 (- 5)   | 0           | O      |

**Solution**:

We will loop the array, `attacks`, and will figure out the `curHealth` for every attacks.

We need :

+ `startTime`: the time that the latest bandage started
+ `curHealth`: current health
+ `healTime`: required time to finish bandaging
+ `healPerSec`: healing amount per second
+ `extraHeal`: extra healing amount after finishing the bandaging
+ `attackTime`: the attack time
+ `damage`: the damage of the current attack
+ `duration`: bandaging time
+ `healAmount`: the amount of healing for the current bandaging

In every loop, we will:

1. set the current attack time
2. set the current attack damage
3. set the duration by `attackTime - startTime`
4. set heal amount between the previous attack and the current attack by `duration * healPerSec + extraHeal * (duration / healTime)`
5. calculate the `curHealth`.
6. set `startTime` and `curHealth`
7. if `curHealth <= 0` return `-1`



**Code**:

~~~c++
#include <string>
#include <vector>
#include <iostream>

using namespace std;

int solution(vector<int> bandage, int health, vector<vector<int>> attacks) {
    int startTime = 0;
    int curHealth = health;
    int healTime = bandage[0];
    int healPerSec = bandage[1];
    int extraHeal = bandage[2];
    for (auto attack : attacks) {
        int attackTime = attack[0];
        int damage = attack[1];
        int duration = attackTime - startTime;
        int healAmount = duration * healPerSec + extraHeal * (duration / healTime);
        curHealth = curHealth + healAmount > health ? health : curHealth + healAmount;
        startTime = attackTime + 1;
        curHealth -= damage;
        cout << curHealth << endl;
        if (curHealth <= 0) return -1;
    }
    return curHealth;
}
~~~

## Q2. Oil Extraction

We are given `m x n` underground map. There are some oil grounds and you can only drill one vertical drill. 

You should find the maximum amount of oil you can extract.

**Example**: `land = [[0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0], [0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0], [1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 0], [1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0], [1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1]]`

| 1    | 2    | 3    | 4     | 5     | 6     | 7     | 8     |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| 0    | 0    | 0    | 1(+1) | 1(+2) | 1(+4) | 0     | 0     |
| 0    | 0    | 0    | 0     | 1(+3) | 1(+5) | 0     | 0     |
| 1    | 1    | 0    | 0     | 0     | 1(+6) | 1(+7) | 0     |
| 1    | 1    | 1    | 0     | 0     | 0     | 0     | 0     |
| 1    | 1    | 1    | 0     | 0     | 0     | 1(+8) | 1(+9) |

Then the maximum oil we can is 9 when we drill the ground 7. 

**Solution**:

We will use ***queue*** data structure to s
