---
title:  "String"
layout: single

author_profile: false

# right side bar: table of contents
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: Contents
toc_icon: "fas fa-utensils"

# left side bar: other contents
sidebar:
    nav: "counts"

#Choose categories
categories: [Study Note]

# Define tags
tag: [Data Structure]

# LaTeX available
use_math: true

# redirect_from:
#   - /위험카테고리이름/파일이름
---

# What is String?

**String** is a **data type** in general and is an array of bytes (or chars). Strings are defined as an **array of characters**. The difference between **String** and **array of characters** is the string is terminated with a special character `\0`.

**Example**: `"Hello", "World!", "!@#$%^&*()"`



# Subsequence

A ***subsequence*** is a sequence that can be derived from another sequence by removing zero or more elements, without changing the order of the remaining elements. For the string of size `n`, there are $2^{n}-1$ number of sub-sequences. 

**Example**: for the string `"world"`, there are 31 sub-sequences.

~~~markdown
w, o, r, l, d
wo, wr, wl, wd, or, ol, od, rl, rd, ld
wor, wol, wod, wrl, wrd, wld, orl, ord, old, rld
worl, word, wold, wrld, orld
world
~~~

# Substring

A ***substring*** is a contiguous part of a string. For the string of size `n`, there are $n*\frac{n+1}{2}$ number of substrings

**Example**: for the string `"world"`, there are 15 non-empty substrings.

~~~markdown
w, wo, wor, worl, world
o, or, orl, orld
r, rl, rld
l, ld
d
~~~

# Binary String

A ***binary string*** is a special kind of string consisting of only two types of characters, such as 0 and 1.

**Example**: `"01010101", "00000001", "111110"`

If you want to learn more, read [Binary String](/data-structure/binary-string).
{: .notice--danger}

# Palindrome String

A **palindrome** is a word, phrase, number, or sequence of characters that reads the same backward as forward.

**Example**:  `"heeeh", "abcba", "qwerreq"`

## Properties of a Palindrome

+ Palindromes have a symmetrical structure.
+ Palindromes can be made up of any type of character, including letters, numbers, and symbols.
+ Palindromes can be of any length, from a single character to an entire sentence or paragraph.

# Pattern Searching

Pattern searching is searching a given pattern in the string. It is an advanced topic of string. The Pattern Searching algorithms are sometimes also referred to as String Searching Algorithms and are considered as a part of the String algorithms. These algorithms are useful in the case of searching a string within another string. Read [String Searching Algorithms](/algorithm/string-searching-algorithms).

# Advantages

+ Strings can store and manipulate text data, making them useful for a wide range of applications and programming tasks.
+ Strings allow for clear representation and interpretation of human-readable text.
+ Strings provide efficient operations for searching, matching, and manipulating patterns in text.

# Disadvantages

+ Strings are generally slow in performing operations like input, output.
+ In JAVA strings are  immutable they cannot be modified or changed.
+ C strings are fixed in size and are not dynamic.
